---
title: "Cybernetics"
date: 2020-10-25T23:39:25-07:00
draft: false
---

Cybernetics are mechanical and electronic components which can be added to a biological life form to augment its abilities; in some cases, cybernetics are built into prosthetics which completely replace a body part or system, or they can be auxiliary components added on to existing parts. Characters on Pax Republica may install cybernetic components or prosthetics using an in-game surgeon, provided they can pay the cost of the parts and the fee for installation, which is at the discretion of the operating surgeon.

Cybernetics come with their own set of advantages and disadvantages, which are important for players to note before making the decision to "cyber" their character. Force Users in particular will need to be careful about which, and how many cybernetic enhancements they wish to take on. Certain augmentations may permanently cap certain attributes or skills, which will be detailed in the augment's information.

Every character has an innate "tolerance" for cybernetic technology, represented by Cybernetic Points, starting at 0 with a maximum of 15. Each cybernetic enhancment uses a certain number of those points; the bigger or more advanced the piece is, the more Cybernetic Points it takes. There is no penalty for a character to take small amounts of cybernetic enhancements; you can replace a lost hand without batting an eye. However, when a character reaches 10 Cybernetic Points used, there becomes an inherent risk in adding more. If a player wishes to add cybernetics to a character already at 10 points, they must roll against the maximum Cybernetic Points value; for example, if a player has 10 points already, they would roll 3D+1 (10 pips) against 5D+0 (15 pips). If their roll is lower than the control roll, there is no penalty. If their roll is equal to or higher than the control roll, the character will lose 0D+1 from a random attribute; roll 1D to determine which attribute. The player may immediately "buy back" the penalty if they possess sufficient character points to do so.

For Force Users, the penalty is more severe, as adding cybernetic enhancements actually makes it more difficult to feel and use the Force. For every Cybernetic Point used over 5, the Force User will automatically lose 0D+1 from his Force attribute. The player can purchase another pip with Character Points at the usual cost after 1 week, if they wish. In addition, when the Force User reaches 10 Cybernetic Points used, they must roll against the maximum Cybernetic Points value; if their roll beats the control roll, the Force User loses 0D+2 from a random attribute.